In general, the concepts of UX and UI are treated as synonyms, or equivalents, which can lead to conceptual confusion, mainly among those learning in the field (even professionals who have never given importance to the topic). However, these 2 terms differ in objectives and scope. 
First, let us define the term UI (User Interface) as the visual and interactive aspects of a product, such as buttons, typography, colors, etc. “UI design is responsible for creating visual and interactive elements of a product to achieve an attractive, intuitive, and cohesive user experience” (D. Salinas, 2024). 
Complementary to this, the term UX (User Experience) can be defined as the process of creating products that provide meaningful and relevant experiences to users. This term encompasses the entire process of collecting and researching user data in order to create a satisfactory experience for the user. “A large part of UX design is making the final product functional in order to provide a positive, efficient, and satisfactory experience for the user.” (D. Salinas, 2024).
As we can see, they do not involve the same thing. When talking about a “satisfactory experience”, we are not only referring to buttons or whether the colors match, we are referring to the complete experience, to the combination of all these visual elements in the product. UI is a step within UX. We can differentiate them as follows: UX is the structure of a house, while UI represents its decorative elements. 
In my web clinic project, this can be clearly seen when trying to register a new appointment. The administrative staff may see very nice, eye-catching, intuitive buttons. They click on them and easily follow the flow, until they reach the point where they need to compare available schedules and rooms. Let us assume there is no efficient way to contrast occupied and free time slots; no matter how nice the buttons are, no matter the color psychology or typography size, the staff simply does not want to spend 15 minutes per appointment figuring out where to fit everyone.
